Hypothesis testing:

I ) Tests about means: 
 a) Tests about one mean: 
    1. Z-Test: When Population Variance(or std) is Known
    2. T-Test(Student's t test): When Population Variance(or std) is Unknown but the sample std is known.
    3. Matched paired t test(Paired T-Test or paired difference test for dependent two sample t test): when the 2 samples are dependent on each other, such as IQ test of a first born and second born of a family,  blood sample analysis from 2 different labs on the same 
people(data from a same person). Since samples are dependent on each other, we can calculate the difference between samples and focus 
on the mean of the difference. Hence, it is considered a test about one mean.

 b) Tests of the Equality of Two Means (for μ1−μ2 )
    : Similar process to above, but the  2 samples are independent from each other to test the means of two sets of data ar
      significantly different from each other.
    1. pooled two-sample t-test(used for AB testing): population variances are equal  (based on the t-distribution)
    2. Welch's t-test(independent two sample t test also used for AB testin): population variances are not equal (based on the t-distribution)
      : Of course, because population variances are generally not known, there is no way of being 100% sure that the population variances are equal or not equal. So in practical terms, there have been a number of papers which examine whether Welch's t-test canbe used all the time. Most of them come to the conclusion that Welch's version of the t-test can be safely used in most circumstances.The 
 only situation in which the test seems to have undesirable performance is in very small sample sizes.

II. Tests about proportions (percentage) tests: 
    - 1. sample proportional z test: 1 population(US population) were asked yes, no question(very happy and not happy with not happy is further divided into fairly happyand not too happy) 
    - 2. sample proporional z test: 2 samples(smokers, non-smokers or old page vs new page) were asked yes, no question(raising taxes, or not raising). This is often used in AB testing.

III. Non-parametric methods: 
   1.  chi-square goodness of fit test to test whether random categorical variables follow a particular probability distribution. 
       Does the sample represent the population?
   2.  use the chi-square test for testing whether two or more multinomial distributions are equal

   3.  use the chi-square test to test whether two (or more) random categorical variables are independent
   4.  use the Wilcoxon test to conduct a hypothesis test for the median of a population

IV. multivariate test: multiple variables are tested together to uncover the ideal combination that is effective in improving the ultimate goal. You can sue ANOVA to test if 1 mean is significantly different from others. 

For AB testing, use the following for : 
 A) 
 Ho:  2 independent samples have identical average (expected) values
 1. Student-t test(pooled two-sample t-test for uncalculated raw 0,1 columns), if the variance of both groups are the same and both are normally distributed.Use   
            scipy.stats.ttest_ind(a, b, axis=0, equal_var=True, nan_policy='propagate'), if equal_var=False, then it will use Welch-t test. 
 2. Welch-t test (unequal variance t-test), if the variance of both groups might not be the same but both are still normally distributed            
 3. Mann–Whitney U test (Wilcoxon rank-sum test), if I cannot make any assumptions about the distribution of both groups. But some researches suggest that if you rank the data before the test, you can always use Welch-t test unless the sample size is small. 
 B) To compare already calculated two proportions(percentages like conversion rates) use:
  statsmodels.stats.proportion.proportions_ztest(alternative='') with alternative hypothesis being importnant. 
 
print sm.stats.proportions_ztest(count=df.Converted, nobs=df.Total, alternative='smaller')



Z-tests are statistical calculations that can be used to compare population means to a sample's. The z-score tells you how far, in standard deviations, a data point is from the mean or average of a data set. A z-test compares a sample to a defined population and is typically used for dealing with problems relating to large samples (n > 30). Z-tests can also be helpful when we want to test a hypothesis. Generally, they are most useful when the standard deviation is known.